schemas.md, before:

# Configuration schemas

## C3

C3js is a wrapper around D3js, that provides simple, out-of-the-box charts. Visit [c3js.org](http://c3js.org) for more.

#### Line chart

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of its values.

```json
{
    "line1": [1, 2, 10, 15],
    "line2": [2, 30, 40, 55]
}
```

#### Bar chart

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of its values.

```json
{
    "bar1": [1, 2, 30, 12, 100],
    "bar2": [2, 4, 12, 50, 80],
}
```

#### Timeseries

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of its values. A `dates` key must be specified, with a list of dates.

```json
{
    "dates": ["2016-08-22", "2016-09-01", "2016-09-11", "2016-09-21"],
    "line1": [1, 2, 3, 4],
    "line2": [2, 10, 3, 10],
    "line3": [2, 10, 20, 40]
}
```

#### Step

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of its values.

```json
{
    "bar1": [1, 2, 30, 12, 100],
    "bar2": [2, 4, 12, 50, 80],
}
```

#### Pie

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and an an integer value.

```json
{
    "data d": 16,
    "data e": 77,
    "data b": 87,
    "data c": 41,
    "data a": 15
}
```

#### Area

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and an an integer value.

```json
{
    "bar1": [1, 2, 30, 12, 100],
    "bar2": [2, 4, 12, 50, 80],
}
```

#### Donut

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and an an integer value.

```json
{
    "data d": 16,
    "data e": 77,
    "data b": 87,
    "data c": 41,
    "data a": 15
}
```

#### Spline

...

#### Gauge

An object with each a single key called `data` and an integer value corresponding to the current gauge value.

```json
{
    "data": 40
}
```

#### Scatter

...

#### Area spline

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and an an integer value.

```json
{
    "bar1": [1, 2, 30, 12, 100],
    "bar2": [2, 4, 12, 50, 80],
}
```

## D3

D3js is a powerful SVG based "dynamic document" drawing library that can create just about any imaginable visualization. Visit [d3js.org](http://d3js.org) for more.

#### Dendrogram

...

#### Treemap

A recursive json config that uses `name` and `children` as its main keys of arbitrary depth.

```json
{
    "name": "chartname",
    "children": [
        {
            "name": "childelements",
            "children": []
        }
    ]
}
```

#### Voronoi

...

#### Circlepack

A recursive json config that uses `name` and `children` as its main keys of arbitrary depth.

```json
{
    "name": "chartname",
    "children": [
        {
            "name": "childelements",
            "children": []
        }
    ]
}
```

## Basic

One-off, simple, ad-hoc displays.

#### Custom

...

#### Iframe

...

#### Number

Any number, positive or negative. Prefixes, such as currencies, are also allowed (there is no real limit to the string, but it is typically shown as a number, and styled accordingly).

```json
"$12,300"
```

```json
"-12,300"
```

```json
2302
```


## Datatables

#### Datatables standard

A table with automatic styling, sorting, filtering and pagination. Format is a list of objects, where values can be any key and value, but all elements in the list **must** have matching key names.

```json
[
    {
        "name": "foo",
        "age": 30
    },
    {
        "name": "bar",
        "age": 20
    }
]
```

## Timeline

#### Timeline standard

A timeline using timeline.js. Format requirements are [available here](https://github.com/christabor/flask_jsondash/blob/master/examples/timeline3.json).

## VennJS

VennJS is a wrapper for d3js that provides an easy to use api for Venn and Euler diagrams. Visit [https://github.com/benfred/venn.js](https://github.com/benfred/venn.js) for more.

#### VennJS standard

```json
[
    {"sets": ["A"], "size": 12},
    {"sets": ["B"], "size": 12},
    {"sets": ["A", "B"], "size": 2},
]
```

## Sparklines

Sparklines are "mini" charts that can be used inline. They most often make sense as complementing a larger context, for example, a paragraph of text. See [http://omnipotent.net/jquery.sparkline/](http://omnipotent.net/jquery.sparkline/) for more.

#### Sparklines bar chart

...

#### Sparklines tristate chart

...

#### Sparklines discrete chart

...

#### Sparklines bullet chart

...

#### Sparklines pie chart

...

#### Sparklines box chart

...

Commit message:

Add notes about custom overrides.

schemas.md, after:

# Configuration schemas

## C3

C3js is a wrapper around D3js, that provides simple, out-of-the-box charts. Visit [c3js.org](http://c3js.org) for more.

### Overrides

Supported.

#### Line chart

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of its values.

```json
{
    "line1": [1, 2, 10, 15],
    "line2": [2, 30, 40, 55]
}
```

#### Bar chart

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of its values.

```json
{
    "bar1": [1, 2, 30, 12, 100],
    "bar2": [2, 4, 12, 50, 80],
}
```

#### Timeseries

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of its values. A `dates` key must be specified, with a list of dates.

```json
{
    "dates": ["2016-08-22", "2016-09-01", "2016-09-11", "2016-09-21"],
    "line1": [1, 2, 3, 4],
    "line2": [2, 10, 3, 10],
    "line3": [2, 10, 20, 40]
}
```

#### Step

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of its values.

```json
{
    "bar1": [1, 2, 30, 12, 100],
    "bar2": [2, 4, 12, 50, 80],
}
```

#### Pie

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and an an integer value.

```json
{
    "data d": 16,
    "data e": 77,
    "data b": 87,
    "data c": 41,
    "data a": 15
}
```

#### Area

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and an an integer value.

```json
{
    "bar1": [1, 2, 30, 12, 100],
    "bar2": [2, 4, 12, 50, 80],
}
```

#### Donut

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and an an integer value.

```json
{
    "data d": 16,
    "data e": 77,
    "data b": 87,
    "data c": 41,
    "data a": 15
}
```

#### Spline

...

#### Gauge

An object with each a single key called `data` and an integer value corresponding to the current gauge value.

```json
{
    "data": 40
}
```

#### Scatter

...

#### Area spline

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and an an integer value.

```json
{
    "bar1": [1, 2, 30, 12, 100],
    "bar2": [2, 4, 12, 50, 80],
}
```

## D3

D3js is a powerful SVG based "dynamic document" drawing library that can create just about any imaginable visualization. Visit [d3js.org](http://d3js.org) for more.

#### Dendrogram

...

#### Treemap

A recursive json config that uses `name` and `children` as its main keys of arbitrary depth.

```json
{
    "name": "chartname",
    "children": [
        {
            "name": "childelements",
            "children": []
        }
    ]
}
```

#### Voronoi

...

#### Circlepack

A recursive json config that uses `name` and `children` as its main keys of arbitrary depth.

```json
{
    "name": "chartname",
    "children": [
        {
            "name": "childelements",
            "children": []
        }
    ]
}
```

## Basic

One-off, simple, ad-hoc displays.

### Overrides

Not supported.

#### Custom

...

#### Iframe

...

#### Number

Any number, positive or negative. Prefixes, such as currencies, are also allowed (there is no real limit to the string, but it is typically shown as a number, and styled accordingly).

```json
"$12,300"
```

```json
"-12,300"
```

```json
2302
```


## Datatables

### Overrides

Not supported.

#### Datatables standard

A table with automatic styling, sorting, filtering and pagination. Format is a list of objects, where values can be any key and value, but all elements in the list **must** have matching key names.

```json
[
    {
        "name": "foo",
        "age": 30
    },
    {
        "name": "bar",
        "age": 20
    }
]
```

## Timeline

An interactive timeline creator.

### Overrides

Not supported.

#### Timeline standard

A timeline using timeline.js. Format requirements are [available here](https://github.com/christabor/flask_jsondash/blob/master/examples/timeline3.json).

## VennJS

VennJS is a wrapper for d3js that provides an easy to use api for Venn and Euler diagrams. Visit [https://github.com/benfred/venn.js](https://github.com/benfred/venn.js) for more.

### Overrides

Not supported.

#### VennJS standard

```json
[
    {"sets": ["A"], "size": 12},
    {"sets": ["B"], "size": 12},
    {"sets": ["A", "B"], "size": 2},
]
```

## Sparklines

Sparklines are "mini" charts that can be used inline. They most often make sense as complementing a larger context, for example, a paragraph of text. See [http://omnipotent.net/jquery.sparkline/](http://omnipotent.net/jquery.sparkline/) for more.

### Overrides

Not supported.

#### Sparklines bar chart

...

#### Sparklines tristate chart

...

#### Sparklines discrete chart

...

#### Sparklines bullet chart

...

#### Sparklines pie chart

...

#### Sparklines box chart

...
