docs/schemas.md, before:

# Configuration schemas

## Vega

Vega-Lite is a high-level grammar for interactive graphics. It provides a concise JSON syntax for supporting rapid generation of interactive multi-view visualizations. Visit [vegalite](https://vega.github.io/vega-lite/docs) for more.

### Overrides

Supported.

#### Vega-lite

Vega-lite is very robust and thus has it's own specification language. [You can view it here](https://vega.github.io/vega-lite/docs/spec.html).

## C3

C3js is a wrapper around D3js, that provides simple, out-of-the-box charts. Visit [c3js.org](http://c3js.org) for more.

### Overrides

Supported.

#### Line chart

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of integer values.

```json
{
    "line1": [1, 2, 10, 15],
    "line2": [2, 30, 40, 55]
}
```

#### Bar chart

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of its values.

```json
{
    "bar1": [1, 2, 30, 12, 100],
    "bar2": [2, 4, 12, 50, 80],
}
```

#### Timeseries

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of its values. A `dates` key must be specified, with a list of dates.

```json
{
    "dates": ["2016-08-22", "2016-09-01", "2016-09-11", "2016-09-21"],
    "line1": [1, 2, 3, 4],
    "line2": [2, 10, 3, 10],
    "line3": [2, 10, 20, 40]
}
```

#### Step

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of integer values.

```json
{
    "bar1": [1, 2, 30, 12, 100],
    "bar2": [2, 4, 12, 50, 80],
}
```

#### Pie

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and an an integer value.

```json
{
    "data d": 16,
    "data e": 77,
    "data b": 87,
    "data c": 41,
    "data a": 15
}
```

#### Area

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of integer values.

```json
{
    "bar1": [1, 2, 30, 12, 100],
    "bar2": [2, 4, 12, 50, 80],
}
```

#### Donut

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and an an integer value.

```json
{
    "data d": 16,
    "data e": 77,
    "data b": 87,
    "data c": 41,
    "data a": 15
}
```

#### Spline

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of its values.

```json
{
    "bar1": [1, 2, 30, 12, 100],
    "bar2": [2, 4, 12, 50, 80],
}
```

#### Gauge

An object with each a single key called `data` and an integer value corresponding to the current gauge value.

```json
{
    "data": 40
}
```

#### Scatter

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of integer values.

```json
{
    "bar1": [1, 2, 30, 12, 100],
    "bar2": [2, 4, 12, 50, 80],
}
```

#### Area spline

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of integer values.

```json
{
    "bar1": [1, 2, 30, 12, 100],
    "bar2": [2, 4, 12, 50, 80],
}
```

## WordCloud

D3-cloud is a 3rd-party module that leverages d3 to create word clouds. Visit [https://github.com/jasondavies/d3-cloud](https://github.com/jasondavies/d3-cloud) for more.

### Overrides

Not Supported.

#### Word Cloud

A list of objects with `text` and `size` keys denoting the word and relative size, respectively.

```json
{
    "text": "foo", "size": 10,
    "text": "bar", "size": 20,
    "text": "baz", "size": 100,
}
```

## Plotly

Plotly is an extremely diverse, powerful and now open source charting library that supports a wide range of formats, including webGL and 3d charting/visualization. See [https://plot.ly/](https://plot.ly/) for more.

### Overrides

Supported.

#### Basic

All values are specified using **JSON** configuration specified by the API. See [https://plot.ly/javascript/](https://plot.ly/javascript/) for more.

Usually, the format is at the very least, something like the below json. You can also see more examples that have been tested with jsondash in the [plotly json configs directory](example_app/examples/plotly). Typically, you can format it exactly as recommended by Plotly API, except converted to JSON format (most javascript can be converted 1:1 using `JSON.stringify` for example).

This means configuration that uses javascript functions are not accepted; these would need to be pre-computed on the server side instead, and then the results dumped to JSON.

```json
{
    "data": [],
    "layout": {}
}
```

## D3

D3js is a powerful SVG based "dynamic document" drawing library that can create just about any imaginable visualization. Visit [d3js.org](http://d3js.org) for more.

#### Dendrogram

A recursive json config that uses `name`, `size`, and `children` as its main keys of arbitrary depth. Additional keys can be added as needed. The `size` key is required to determine sizing of each element (relative to the set, not pixel values).

```json
{
    "name": "chartname",
    "children": [
        {
            "name": "childelements",
            "size": 10,
            "children": []
        }
    ]
}
```

#### Radial Dendrogram

A recursive json config that uses `name`, `size`, and `children` as its main keys of arbitrary depth. Additional keys can be added as needed. The `size` key is required to determine sizing of each element (relative to the set, not pixel values).

```json
{
    "name": "chartname",
    "children": [
        {
            "name": "childelements",
            "size": 10,
            "children": []
        }
    ]
}
```

#### Treemap

A recursive json config that uses `name`, `size`, and `children` as its main keys of arbitrary depth. Additional keys can be added as needed. The `size` key is required to determine sizing of each element (relative to the set, not pixel values).

```json
{
    "name": "chartname",
    "children": [
        {
            "name": "childelements",
            "size": 10,
            "children": []
        }
    ]
}
```

#### Voronoi

An array of arrays, where each array element contains 2 items: the x, y coordinates for a given point.

```json
[
    [2, 10], [100, 30], [300, 10], [320, 101]
]
```

#### Circlepack

A recursive json config that uses `name`, `size`, and `children` as its main keys of arbitrary depth. Additional keys can be added as needed. The `size` key is required to determine sizing of each element (relative to the set, not pixel values).

```json
{
    "name": "chartname",
    "children": [
        {
            "name": "childelements",
            "size": 10,
            "children": []
        }
    ]
}
```
## Basic

One-off, simple, ad-hoc displays.

### Overrides

Not supported.

#### Custom

No schema; you can serve whatever kind of page you want. Similar to an iframe, except this will load the source directly into the page. **Note**: some unintended side effects of your dashboard may occur (such as css style overrides), so YMMV. Alternatively, you can use the iframe option.

#### Iframe

No schema; you can load whatever page you want. This will not affect the dashboard, unlike the *custom* option, but you will have limited access to the contents of the iframe (typically not a concern.)

#### Number

Any number, positive or negative. Prefixes, such as currencies, are also allowed (there is no real limit to the string, but it is typically shown as a number, and styled accordingly).

```json
{"data": "$12,300"}
```

```json
{"data": "-12,300"}
```

```json
{"data": 2302}
```

You can also override the color and/or disable negative/positive formatting like so:

```json
{"data": 12, "color": "purple", "noformat": "true"}
```

Disabling `noformat` is important if you are not using a numerical value, as it might incorrectly guess color and/or formatting when it doesn't make sense.

#### YouTube

Takes the html embed code from youtube. For example:

```html
<iframe width="650" height="366" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_hI0qMtdfng?list=RD_hI0qMtdfng&amp;controls=0&amp;showinfo=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
```

This will be serialized for JSON and deserialized when rendering.

## Graph

A graph is an abstract structure that uses nodes and edges to represent relationships. The actual implementation here utilizes the graphviz digraph (directed graph) DOT specification.

The graph/digraph format is like the following simple example:

```
digraph {
    a -> b;
    b -> a;
    a -> c;
    b -> c;
    c -> c;
}
```

Which must be encoded as json like so:

```json
{
    "graph": "..."
}
```

Where `...` is the digraph string. You can find the [dot specificiation here](http://www.graphviz.org/content/dot-language) and the actual [javascript implementation here](https://github.com/cpettitt/graphlib/wiki/API-Reference). 

### Overrides

Not supported/relevant.

## Datatables

### Overrides

Supported.

#### Datatables standard

A table with automatic styling, sorting, filtering and pagination. Format is a list of objects, where values can be any key and value, but all elements in the list **must** have matching key names. Also take note of the outside brackets. All objects must be wrapped in `[]`.

```json
[
    {
        "name": "foo",
        "age": 30
    },
    {
        "name": "bar",
        "age": 20
    }
]
```

## Timeline

An interactive timeline creator.

### Overrides

Not supported.

#### Timeline standard

A timeline using timeline.js. Format requirements are [available here](https://github.com/christabor/flask_jsondash/blob/master/examples/timeline3.json).

## VennJS

VennJS is a wrapper for d3js that provides an easy to use api for Venn and Euler diagrams. Visit [https://github.com/benfred/venn.js](https://github.com/benfred/venn.js) for more.

### Overrides

Not supported.

#### VennJS standard

A list of objects with keys `sets`, and `size`, where `set` is a list of set names, and `size` is relative size of the circle.

```json
[
    {"sets": ["A"], "size": 12},
    {"sets": ["B"], "size": 12},
    {"sets": ["A", "B"], "size": 2},
]
```

## Sparklines

Sparklines are "mini" charts that can be used inline. They most often make sense as complementing a larger context, for example, a paragraph of text. See [http://omnipotent.net/jquery.sparkline/](http://omnipotent.net/jquery.sparkline/) for more.

### Overrides

Not supported.

#### Sparklines line chart

An array of arrays, where each element contains two integers, representing x/y positions.

```json
[
    [1, 2], [2, 10], [10, 30]
]
```

#### Sparklines bar chart

An array of arrays, where each element contains two integers, representing x/y positions.

```json
[
    [1, 2], [2, 10], [10, 30]
]
```

#### Sparklines tristate chart

...

#### Sparklines discrete chart

An array of integers representing up and down positions.

```json
[
    [20, 40, 30, 10]
]
```

#### Sparklines bullet chart

...

#### Sparklines pie chart

An array of integers, representing percentages.

```json
[
    [20, 40, 30, 10]
]
```

#### Sparklines box chart

...

Commit message:

Add intgeration of cytoscape. Closes #101.

docs/schemas.md, after:

# Configuration schemas

## Vega

Vega-Lite is a high-level grammar for interactive graphics. It provides a concise JSON syntax for supporting rapid generation of interactive multi-view visualizations. Visit [vegalite](https://vega.github.io/vega-lite/docs) for more.

### Overrides

Supported.

#### Vega-lite

Vega-lite is very robust and thus has it's own specification language. [You can view it here](https://vega.github.io/vega-lite/docs/spec.html).

## C3

C3js is a wrapper around D3js, that provides simple, out-of-the-box charts. Visit [c3js.org](http://c3js.org) for more.

### Overrides

Supported.

#### Line chart

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of integer values.

```json
{
    "line1": [1, 2, 10, 15],
    "line2": [2, 30, 40, 55]
}
```

#### Bar chart

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of its values.

```json
{
    "bar1": [1, 2, 30, 12, 100],
    "bar2": [2, 4, 12, 50, 80],
}
```

#### Timeseries

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of its values. A `dates` key must be specified, with a list of dates.

```json
{
    "dates": ["2016-08-22", "2016-09-01", "2016-09-11", "2016-09-21"],
    "line1": [1, 2, 3, 4],
    "line2": [2, 10, 3, 10],
    "line3": [2, 10, 20, 40]
}
```

#### Step

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of integer values.

```json
{
    "bar1": [1, 2, 30, 12, 100],
    "bar2": [2, 4, 12, 50, 80],
}
```

#### Pie

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and an an integer value.

```json
{
    "data d": 16,
    "data e": 77,
    "data b": 87,
    "data c": 41,
    "data a": 15
}
```

#### Area

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of integer values.

```json
{
    "bar1": [1, 2, 30, 12, 100],
    "bar2": [2, 4, 12, 50, 80],
}
```

#### Donut

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and an an integer value.

```json
{
    "data d": 16,
    "data e": 77,
    "data b": 87,
    "data c": 41,
    "data a": 15
}
```

#### Spline

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of its values.

```json
{
    "bar1": [1, 2, 30, 12, 100],
    "bar2": [2, 4, 12, 50, 80],
}
```

#### Gauge

An object with each a single key called `data` and an integer value corresponding to the current gauge value.

```json
{
    "data": 40
}
```

#### Scatter

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of integer values.

```json
{
    "bar1": [1, 2, 30, 12, 100],
    "bar2": [2, 4, 12, 50, 80],
}
```

#### Area spline

An object with each key corresponding to the line label, and a list of integer values.

```json
{
    "bar1": [1, 2, 30, 12, 100],
    "bar2": [2, 4, 12, 50, 80],
}
```

## WordCloud

D3-cloud is a 3rd-party module that leverages d3 to create word clouds. Visit [https://github.com/jasondavies/d3-cloud](https://github.com/jasondavies/d3-cloud) for more.

### Overrides

Not Supported.

#### Word Cloud

A list of objects with `text` and `size` keys denoting the word and relative size, respectively.

```json
{
    "text": "foo", "size": 10,
    "text": "bar", "size": 20,
    "text": "baz", "size": 100,
}
```

## Plotly

Plotly is an extremely diverse, powerful and now open source charting library that supports a wide range of formats, including webGL and 3d charting/visualization. See [https://plot.ly/](https://plot.ly/) for more.

### Overrides

Supported.

#### Basic

All values are specified using **JSON** configuration specified by the API. See [https://plot.ly/javascript/](https://plot.ly/javascript/) for more.

Usually, the format is at the very least, something like the below json. You can also see more examples that have been tested with jsondash in the [plotly json configs directory](example_app/examples/plotly). Typically, you can format it exactly as recommended by Plotly API, except converted to JSON format (most javascript can be converted 1:1 using `JSON.stringify` for example).

This means configuration that uses javascript functions are not accepted; these would need to be pre-computed on the server side instead, and then the results dumped to JSON.

```json
{
    "data": [],
    "layout": {}
}
```

## D3

D3js is a powerful SVG based "dynamic document" drawing library that can create just about any imaginable visualization. Visit [d3js.org](http://d3js.org) for more.

#### Dendrogram

A recursive json config that uses `name`, `size`, and `children` as its main keys of arbitrary depth. Additional keys can be added as needed. The `size` key is required to determine sizing of each element (relative to the set, not pixel values).

```json
{
    "name": "chartname",
    "children": [
        {
            "name": "childelements",
            "size": 10,
            "children": []
        }
    ]
}
```

#### Radial Dendrogram

A recursive json config that uses `name`, `size`, and `children` as its main keys of arbitrary depth. Additional keys can be added as needed. The `size` key is required to determine sizing of each element (relative to the set, not pixel values).

```json
{
    "name": "chartname",
    "children": [
        {
            "name": "childelements",
            "size": 10,
            "children": []
        }
    ]
}
```

#### Treemap

A recursive json config that uses `name`, `size`, and `children` as its main keys of arbitrary depth. Additional keys can be added as needed. The `size` key is required to determine sizing of each element (relative to the set, not pixel values).

```json
{
    "name": "chartname",
    "children": [
        {
            "name": "childelements",
            "size": 10,
            "children": []
        }
    ]
}
```

#### Voronoi

An array of arrays, where each array element contains 2 items: the x, y coordinates for a given point.

```json
[
    [2, 10], [100, 30], [300, 10], [320, 101]
]
```

#### Circlepack

A recursive json config that uses `name`, `size`, and `children` as its main keys of arbitrary depth. Additional keys can be added as needed. The `size` key is required to determine sizing of each element (relative to the set, not pixel values).

```json
{
    "name": "chartname",
    "children": [
        {
            "name": "childelements",
            "size": 10,
            "children": []
        }
    ]
}
```
## Basic

One-off, simple, ad-hoc displays.

### Overrides

Not supported.

#### Custom

No schema; you can serve whatever kind of page you want. Similar to an iframe, except this will load the source directly into the page. **Note**: some unintended side effects of your dashboard may occur (such as css style overrides), so YMMV. Alternatively, you can use the iframe option.

#### Iframe

No schema; you can load whatever page you want. This will not affect the dashboard, unlike the *custom* option, but you will have limited access to the contents of the iframe (typically not a concern.)

#### Number

Any number, positive or negative. Prefixes, such as currencies, are also allowed (there is no real limit to the string, but it is typically shown as a number, and styled accordingly).

```json
{"data": "$12,300"}
```

```json
{"data": "-12,300"}
```

```json
{"data": 2302}
```

You can also override the color and/or disable negative/positive formatting like so:

```json
{"data": 12, "color": "purple", "noformat": "true"}
```

Disabling `noformat` is important if you are not using a numerical value, as it might incorrectly guess color and/or formatting when it doesn't make sense.

#### YouTube

Takes the html embed code from youtube. For example:

```html
<iframe width="650" height="366" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_hI0qMtdfng?list=RD_hI0qMtdfng&amp;controls=0&amp;showinfo=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
```

This will be serialized for JSON and deserialized when rendering.

## Graph

A graph is an abstract structure that uses nodes and edges to represent relationships. The actual implementation here utilizes the graphviz digraph (directed graph) DOT specification.

The graph/digraph format is like the following simple example:

```
digraph {
    a -> b;
    b -> a;
    a -> c;
    b -> c;
    c -> c;
}
```

Which must be encoded as json like so:

```json
{
    "graph": "..."
}
```

Where `...` is the digraph string. You can find the [dot specificiation here](http://www.graphviz.org/content/dot-language) and the actual [javascript implementation here](https://github.com/cpettitt/graphlib/wiki/API-Reference). 

### Overrides

Not supported/relevant.

## Cytoscape

Cytoscape is a graph theory / network library for analysis and visualisation. Visit [cytoscape website](http://js.cytoscape.org/) for more.

### Overrides

Supported.

#### Cytoscape (core layouts)

Cytoscape supports third-party layout extensions to the core library, but only the core layouts are available in jsondash. See some examples in the [example configurations directory](example_app/examples/cytoscape).

**other notes**

In all configurations, there is no need to specify a DOM selector, since this will be populated during initialization. Also, this does not serialize, so it would never be included in the payload anyway.

## Datatables

### Overrides

Supported.

#### Datatables standard

A table with automatic styling, sorting, filtering and pagination. Format is a list of objects, where values can be any key and value, but all elements in the list **must** have matching key names. Also take note of the outside brackets. All objects must be wrapped in `[]`.

```json
[
    {
        "name": "foo",
        "age": 30
    },
    {
        "name": "bar",
        "age": 20
    }
]
```

## Timeline

An interactive timeline creator.

### Overrides

Not supported.

#### Timeline standard

A timeline using timeline.js. Format requirements are [available here](https://github.com/christabor/flask_jsondash/blob/master/examples/timeline3.json).

## VennJS

VennJS is a wrapper for d3js that provides an easy to use api for Venn and Euler diagrams. Visit [https://github.com/benfred/venn.js](https://github.com/benfred/venn.js) for more.

### Overrides

Not supported.

#### VennJS standard

A list of objects with keys `sets`, and `size`, where `set` is a list of set names, and `size` is relative size of the circle.

```json
[
    {"sets": ["A"], "size": 12},
    {"sets": ["B"], "size": 12},
    {"sets": ["A", "B"], "size": 2},
]
```

## Sparklines

Sparklines are "mini" charts that can be used inline. They most often make sense as complementing a larger context, for example, a paragraph of text. See [http://omnipotent.net/jquery.sparkline/](http://omnipotent.net/jquery.sparkline/) for more.

### Overrides

Not supported.

#### Sparklines line chart

An array of arrays, where each element contains two integers, representing x/y positions.

```json
[
    [1, 2], [2, 10], [10, 30]
]
```

#### Sparklines bar chart

An array of arrays, where each element contains two integers, representing x/y positions.

```json
[
    [1, 2], [2, 10], [10, 30]
]
```

#### Sparklines tristate chart

...

#### Sparklines discrete chart

An array of integers representing up and down positions.

```json
[
    [20, 40, 30, 10]
]
```

#### Sparklines bullet chart

...

#### Sparklines pie chart

An array of integers, representing percentages.

```json
[
    [20, 40, 30, 10]
]
```

#### Sparklines box chart

...
